M. Lorena González: Diversity is one of these
words that has become very watered down to
mean just about anything that you can think
about.
Louis Chude-Sokei: Diversity is something
that is often said and asked for. But like
all the other terms, the meanings have never
been fully established.
Keli Carender: What it seems to mean is looks.
We have a black person, we have a white person,
we have a Hispanic person, we have a female,
you need this many people from this race and
this many women and this many, whatever.
Varisha Khan: Diversity means coming from
anything that's different, any walk of life
that's different. So that includes race, that
includes religion.
Cynthia Tee: ...can be gender identification,
can be sexual orientation, can be
disability or ability.
Marci Owens: ...not just races, like people
coming from poor families and people coming
from rich families and middle class.
Mark Olsen: Diversity is also defined by ideology,
by religion, by, by thought process.
Lorena: I think to me diversity has to be
rooted in race, ethnicity and, and gender.
And I limit it to those categories very intentionally,
because really what we're talking about is
including people in an environment where they
have not historically been included.
Mark: I think we have to be really careful
with how we define diversity. If there's a,
you know a city council full of people of
many different races and stuff but they all
think the same way, that doesn't make it a
diverse city council.
Louis: The difficulty with Seattle is that
diversity and privilege and these issues become
largely intellectual exercises, and people
don't actually spend a whole lot of time just
in a place where they're, where they're on
someone else's terms. In a place where English
isn't the primary language, right? In a place
where your norms and expectations are turned
upside down.
Leija Farr: Diversity is just like, going
outside of your boundaries of what you feel
is like comfortable, and like, seeing different
things.
Duck Bae: Exposing yourself to people you
have very little in common with and having
to make that extra effort to find things you
do have in common with them. And that's a
very scary thing. Even in some of the most
diverse cities of America you'll ultimately
see that people gravitate towards people they
have a lot of similarity with.
Michael Dixon: I don't want to be diversified
out of existence. The downside of diversity
is gentrification.
Louis: The world is diverse but the professional
worlds are becoming increasingly segregated.
I've had much trouble over the years trying
to explain to African-American people that
diversity means more than just white people
hiring you.
Autumn Bennett: What if the two people have
the exact same qualifications, like then how
do, I mean, are they supposed to choose a
minority? So if there's a black guy and a
white guy and they have the same qualifications
is the, is the person supposed to choose the
black guy? I mean how does that work out.
Rachael DeCruz: I feel like a lot of decisions
are made assuming that the playing field is
level and equal, and they're not. Oftentimes
our country's focus on the individual and
this narrative of like, “pull yourself up
by your bootstraps. You work hard and you
play by the rules, and you'll be able to get
ahead in life.” And that's damaging because
it's not true. You know, we each come into
this world with a set of lived experiences
that have shaped us, and I think finding ways to meet people where they're at is really important.
Cynthia: The whole tech space is fundamentally
very biased. And so you have to do things
differently in order to make sure that people
who are oppressed feel welcome in that environment,
and feel like they belong, and stay there.
Lucas Nydam: Diversity, I don't think it's
like a strong-enough word. Just because they're
present doesn't mean they're heard. So it's
like you can have a room and have it be very
diverse but still have only one person, one
background talking,
one group of people supported and engaged.
Louis: It is kind of naive to assume that
just by putting a lot of people from all over
the place in one job or in one office or in
one classroom that automatically, boom.
Lorena: Which is why we see, you know, folks
who work in that area
moving towards the term of inclusion.
Cynthia: Inclusivity requires the ability
to really examine your own biases and, you know,
be willing to admit that you're biased.
And inclusivity is how you create an environment
where they all feel like they belong there.
Lucas: When you bring diverse people to the
table you realize things that you didn't know
before, because they were invisible to you
because of your experience, because our experiences
are shaped by our race.
Sean Riley: I believe that to be around folks
who, who see things differently than you is
good for you. And the more that can happen
in your life the more expansive your own sense
of identity will be, and the more you'll understand
yourself.
Autumn: I don’t know, and I also think that
when you have exposure to the opposite race
or another race, it kind of makes your preconceived
notions a little different.